---
title: 'Introducing HECTOR Mini - A 3-D printed cost-friendly bipedal humanoid robot'
date: 2025-08-06
permalink: /posts/2025/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Hector Mini
---


Some background and motivations for this work
======
It is always a pleasure to work on some hardware aspect of robotics. Throughout my PhD, I had the chance to learn (from my labmates) and work on many aspects of the hardware and systems of legged/humanoid robots.
We have learned a lot from creating and building the [HECTOR v1](https://youtu.be/NcW-NFwjMh0) and [v2](https://youtu.be/W4f0641Kcpg?si=lgCcTYkCz_Fuz41s) platforms. Towards the end of my PhD, I wanted to give my last shot at designing and creating a new humanoid robot, with something new, and hopefully give some new(old?) perspectives on humanoid robotics to the community. 

When I first started my PhD, there weren't many available bipedal robot hardware options on the market, so we decided to make our own biped out of the Unitree A1 quadruped. Back then, inspired by many successful optimization-based control works such as the MIT Cheetah series, the design of the robots was mostly focusing on reducing the leg inertia for more dynamic motion potentials. Fastforwarding to today, the humanoid robot design language has changed quite a bit -- from low-inertia legs with careful design of transmissions, to motor-at-joint direct drives. This was largely influenced by the rise of RL and the need for more robust hardware and a smaller sim-to-real gap on the hardware side. It is an inevitable evolution; however, a bit sad to see some of the clever mechanisms have gone. 


The idea
======

